# Media Bias Article Classification using Supervised and Unsupervised Learning
Authors: Gabrielle Jones, Jessica Ma, Shivam Patel, Wesley Tsai, and Tao Zhou \
Emails: gabs@umich.edu, jqma@umich.edu, shivamgp@umich.edu, wesleyjt@umich.edu, and taozhou@umich.edu \
EECS 545 Machine Learning Final Project - University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI USA

## Abstract
News and general media has never been more accessible than before, and likewise it has never been easier for highly biased media to dominate the market. Within the United States two regimes (left and right) dominate the political bias spectrum, leaving consumers who want objective (neutral) news stranded. Recent improvements in artificial intelligence models have been garnering attention as a potential `objective' rating system, one not susceptible to human's unavoidable bias. Such a system would increase consumer trust in media and work as an effective filter for identifying unbiased sources. This work's supervised learning methods demonstrate levels of classification accuracy up to 80\% using a GPT-2 architecture, pivoting from its common use of text generation. A probabilistic supervised Naive Bayes method showed that predicting bias using text tokenization are category dependent; a no correlation regime, a highly context dependent regime, and a final `biased phrase' dominated regime. Unsupervised learning methods, free from external human bias also showed improvements within our findings, as compared to a random guess baseline. A novel Chat API Classifer, OpenAI's ChatGPT achieved a 46.8\% accuracy, with a high internal bias for classifying articles as neutral. These findings suggest that unsupervised methods may cater towards neutrality and overlook        satire, shedding insight into their mechanisms for specialized tasks, all reflected against our society's expectation for AI to capture the full human experience. Political bias is a spectrum, dependent on day-to-day events, and this work presents new insights into how supervised and unsupervised methods attempt to parse such a culturally nuanced task.
